docs: update plugins doc (#9171)
traefik/traefik: docs/content/plugins/index.md

---
title: "Traefik Plugins Documentation"
description: "Learn how to use Traefik Plugins. Read the technical documentation."
---

# Traefik Plugins and the Plugin Catalog

Plugins are a powerful feature for extending Traefik with custom features and behaviors.

> The [Plugin Catalog](https://plugins.traefik.io/) is a software-as-a-service (SaaS) platform that provides an exhausting list of the existing plugins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Plugin Catalog](https://plugins.traefik.io/) is a software-as-a-service (SaaS) platform that provides an exhaustive list of the existing plugins.
```

??? note "Plugin Catalog Access"

>     You can easily reach the [Plugin Catalog](https://plugins.traefik.io/) from the Traefik Dashboard using the `Plugins` menu entry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You can reach the [Plugin Catalog](https://plugins.traefik.io/) from the Traefik Dashboard using the `Plugins` menu entry.
```

To add a new plugin to a Traefik instance, you must modify that instance's static configuration.
The code to be added is provided in each plugin's **Install** section.

> Many plugins require some additional changes in the Traefik dynamic configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many plugins have their own section in the Traefik dynamic configuration.
```

To learn more about Traefik plugins, consult the [documentation](https://plugins.traefik.io/install).

!!! danger "Experimental Features"
    Plugins can potentially modify the behavior of Traefik in unforeseen ways.
    Exercise caution when adding new plugins to production Traefik instances.

## Build Your Own Plugins

Traefik users can create their own plugins and share them with the community using the Plugin Catalog.

> Traefik plugins are loaded dynamically. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Traefik will load plugins dynamically.
```

> Traefik users can create plugins and share them with the community using the Plugin Catalog.

Reviewer: The emphasis to show that users can create their own plugins is good. It shows that users are not bound to Traefik labs and a free to do whatever plugins they want.

> Traefik users can create plugins and share them with the community using the Plugin Catalog.

Reviewer: I removed it first because it was kind of a pleonasm, but I changed my mind about it.
